# 4.8 Exercises

### 4.8.1

! Exercise 4.8.1 : The following is an ambiguous grammar for expressions with n binary, infix operators, at n different levels of precedence:

E -> E x1 E | E x2 E | ... | E xn E | ( E ) | id

a) As a function of n, what are the SLR sets of items?
b) How would you resolve the conflicts in the SLR items so that all operators are left associative, and x1 takes precedence over x2, which takes precedence over x3, and so on?
c) Show the SLR parsing table that results from your decisions in part (b).


#### Answer

a) the augmented grammar will have 6 states independently from n. 

	S -> . E
	E -> . E xn E
	E -> . ( E )
	E -> . id

On a E-transition we have 

	S -> E .
	E -> E . xn E

From here there n different states on xn-transitions, one for each operator:

	E -> E xn . E
	E -> . E xn E
	E -> . ( E )
	E -> . id
(There is another state that arrives here with a xn-transition, specifically: 

	E -> ( E . )
	E -> E . xn E
)

To complete the item E -> E xn . E, from each one of them there is a E-transition:

	E -> E xn E .
	E -> E . xn E

So the result is 6 + 2n.

b) Assume we have 3 operators. We need to create 3 different non-terminals and another non-terminal that matches with token and an expression between round parenthesis.
x1 takes precedence over x2, which takes precedence over x3

	E -> E x1 T | T
	T -> T x2 F | F
	F -> F x3 C | C
	C -> n | ( E )

e) For the unambiguous grammar the number of states increases, in particular we will have at least 3\*n states. This is because for each non-terminal we need 3 states for:

	E -> E . xn E1
	E -> E xn . E1
	E -> E xn E1 .

Then we have other 4 more states to match E -> id and E -> ( E ) productions.
